## Intro
Enrollment and Identity Proofing provides detailed requirements and controls for individuals' enrollment and identity proofing in digital identity systems. These resources provide informational guidance for implementing services, controls, and requirements. 

**Identity Proofing:** A Credential Service Provider (CSP) collects and verifies information about a person for the purpose of issuing credentials to that person. 

Journey

Resolution - > Validation -> Verification

- Resolve: A claimed identity to a single unique identity within the context of the population of users served by the CSP.
- Validate: All evidence supplied is valid and genuine, and the claimed identity exists in the real world. 
- Verify: Claimed identity is associated with the real person supplying the identity evidence. 

## Proccees
Requires CSP to document the identity proofing and enrollment processes in an applicable written policy or practice statement that specifies the steps used to perform identity proofing and enrollment processes. Such documented policies and procedures are fundamental controls and prerequisites for transparency, accountability, quality control, auditability, and interoperability among federated communities. 

This document should present the specific steps in identity proofing and enrolling applicants into the CSP identity system. The process documentation should also present the procedures for addressing errors and circumstances that result in failure to enroll applicants in the identity system successfully. Such circumstances that may result in the inability or failure to complete the identity proofing and enrollment processes include

- Applicant abandons the identity proofing and enrollment processes;
- Applicant fails to provide mandatory attribute information;
- Identity evidence of required strength is not provided;
- Identity evidence is rejected following inspection;
- Identity evidence and information do not correlate;
- Information from identity evidence is not validated by issuing or authoritative sources at the required strength
- Identity verification of binding to the applicant fails, and the Applicant fails to confirm the enrollment code within its validity period

SP 800-63A does not specify required actions or procedures to address such circumstances. The CSP should determine the appropriate processing steps and include applicable written documentation in the identity-proofing procedural documentation. 

It is also recommended that this documentation include the information and activities collected, recorded, and maintained in the enrollment records and audit  logs of identity-proofing activities and events. Key security-related activities and tasks for such enrollment records and documentation associated with the identity proofing process may include. 

- Identity information collected;
- Identity evidence provided;
- Identity evidence validated;
- Identity evidence validation source;
- Identity evidence binding verification method;
- Identity evidence verification result;
- Enrollment code confirmation result;
- Enrollment result;
- Authenticator registration.

CSP may find it useful to consult the reference guidance published by  the MITRE corporation. 
https://www.mitre.org/news-insights/publication/enrollment-and-identity-proofing-practices-statement-templates

## Resulotion
The identity resolution step in identity proofing processes and the collection of core identity attributes are parallel processes to establish a unique representation of the individual's identity for use during the proofing process and enrollment. The objective of the collection of core identity attributes is to resolve applicants' identities to a single unique entity for the given population and context. The types of identity attributes that may be retrieved from identity documents and used for identity resolution typically include

- name (first, last, middle) with combinations and variations,
- address (number, street, state, zip code) with combinations and variations,
- birth date (day, month, year) with combinations and variations,
- email address,
- phone number

The types of identity attributes may be presented in different formats. There are many different types of identity attributes and information that may be collected and considered for identity resolution. 

SP 800-63A limits the attribute information that may be collected and maintained. PII shall be limited to the minimum necessary to resolve a unique identity in a given context to validate the claimed identity and associate the claimed identity with the applicant, providing identity evidence for appropriate identity resolution, validation, and verification. This may include the collection of attributes that assist in data queries. 

The goal of identity resolution is to distinguish an individual within a given population or context uniquely. Effective identity resolution uses the minimum attributes necessary to resolve a unique individual. 

- The types of personal information necessary for collection
- whether such information is mandatory or voluntary
- purposes for the collection and maintenance of personal information and attributes
- Whether the information will be retained and how it will be protected
- consequences of failure to provide required information.

## A3.1 Collection Tecuhniques
Initial application information may be captured via an online form directly from the applicant being proofed. In other cases, the CSP may allow the applicant to provide some documents via remote means, such as submitting an image of an identification document like a passport or driver's license.

- Document Image capture: Camera
- Document Image capture: Scanner
- Barcode: Scanner
 
If the CSP performs in-person registration, it may consider, for efficiency and convenience purposes, executing additional steps in the process, such as evidence validation, at the time of registration. The CSP may provide Kiosks to allow an applicant to enter their information directly or have a representative enter it on their behalf. 

## Strength of Evidence

IAL1
- No identity evidence is collected
IAL2
- One piece of SUPERIOR or STRONG evidence depending on the strength of oringal proof and validation, occurs with the issuing source
- Two pieces of STRONG evidence
- One piece of STRONG evidence plus two pieces of FAIR evidence

IAL3
- Two pieces of SUPERIOR evidence
- One piece of SUPERIOR evidence and one piece of STONRG evidence depending on the strength of original proof and validation, occurs with the issuing source,
- Two pieces of STRONG evidence plus one piece of FAIR evidence

Superior
- Passport
- Personal Identity Verification
- Common Access Card
- Personal Identity Verification Interoperable
- Transportation Worker Identification Credential
- Permanent Resident Card
- Native American Enhanced Tribal Card

Strong+
- Real ID cards (driver licenses) validated by AMA
- Enhanced ID cards
- Military ID

Strong
- Permanent Resident Card
- Drivers licenses

Fair
- School ID
- Utility account statement
- Credit/debit card
- Financial institution account statement

Weak
- Social Security card
- Birth certificate.

## Validation
The objective of identity validation is to determine the authenticity, integrity, and accuracy of identity evidence collected from the applicant to support the claimed identity for identity proofing. 

** Validation of Evidence Authenticity
Evidence validation for authenticity involves examining the evidence for: 
- Confirmation of required information completeness and format for the identity evidence type
- Detection of evidence tampering or the creation of counterfeit or fraudulent evidence.
- Confirmation of security features.

There are 5 levels of validation techniques ranging from UNACCEPTABLE to SUPERIOR. These validation products and services may be used for either in-person or remotely. Such products and services should conduct one or more necessary evidence authenticity tests.

- Test identity evidence for authenticity against document-type libraries for information completeness, format, and correctness.
- Test identity evidence for authenticity through tamper and counterfeit detection
- Test identity evidence for authenticity by confirming the presence and verification of security features for the evidence presented.

| Security Feature                  | Examination Capability | Description                                                                                                     |
|-----------------------------------|-----------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Fine-line or Guilloche Pattern    | Visual                | Background pattern of continuous fine lines printed in a wavy, overlapping pattern.                             |
| Ghost image                       | Visual                | Half-tone reproduction of the original image (e.g., facial image), may be printed behind printed data.          |
| Overlapped data                   | Visual                | Variable data (e.g., signature, seal, text) printed over another field such as a facial image or seal.          |
| Transparent image                 | Visual                | See-through, window-like image feature (e.g., facial image) visible from both sides of the evidence.            |
| Rainbow printing                  | Visual                | Controlled color shifts of printed text in a continuous, linear fashion.                                         |
| Holographic Images                | Visual, Tilting       | Light field record of objects that will appear and change as the view of evidence is tilted and turned. Most state-issued driver’s licenses and IDs contain at least one holographic image. |
| Variable laser engraved images    | Visual, Tilting       | Laser-engraved images at different angles so that image view changes with the tilting angle of viewing evidence. |
| Iridescent Inks and Custom Foil Stamping | Visual, Tilting | Custom designs and printing that will change color properties depending on the angle at which evidence is viewed. |
| Laser perforation                 | Visual, Light, Tactile | Perforated holes made by a laser beam to form images. The images can be viewed under a light source; image holes have a tactile feel. |
| UV printing                       | Visual, UV Lighting   | A UV image or text that can only be viewed with special lighting. UV images may appear on the front or back of the evidence. |
| Microprinting                     | Visual, Magnifier     | Microtext of static or variable data that can be confirmed when viewed under a magnifier. Requires magnification of at least 10X to view. |
| Laser embossing                   | Tactile               | Use of a laser to emboss image or text for tactile feel on only one side of the evidence.                        |
| Barcode                           | Visual, Barcode Reader | Machine-readable, encoded data (typically personalized printed data) for 2-D barcode, readable with a barcode reader. |
| UV printing                       | Visual, UV Lighting   | A UV image or text that can only be viewed with specialized lighting. UV images may appear on the front or back of a card. |



** Evidence information validation


## Verification
Identity verification represents the process of confirming that the evidence perviously shown to be valid, actually refers to the applicatn taht is apperaing for identity proofing. The objective of identity verfication is to confirm a linkage between person presenting the evidence For IAL2 and IAL 3 thisbinding is done by a phsyical or biometric comparison of the phtoograph on the strongest piece of evidence to the applicant or tby a biometric comparison between informatoin on the evidence and biometric characteristic obtained from the applicant. 

Identify verification is pefromed against the stgrongest piece of identity evidence submitted and validated. 


| Strength  | Verification Type              | Description                                                                                                   |
|-----------|---------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| SUPERIOR  | Biometric Verification          | Biometric comparison against biometric characteristics on the strongest piece(s) of evidence against live biometric capture for remote or in-person identity proofing. May be used for identity verification for FAIR, STRONG, and SUPERIOR strength. |
| STRONG    | In-Person Physical Verification | Physical comparison of the applicant to facial-image photograph on the strongest piece(s) of validated evidence. May be used for identity verification for FAIR and STRONG strength. |
| STRONG    | Remote Physical Verification    | Physical comparison of the applicant to facial-image photograph on the strongest piece(s) of validated evidence. May be used for identity verification for FAIR and STRONG strength. |
| FAIR      | Knowledge-Based Verification (KBV) | Comparison of challenge response to KBV questions provided by the applicant. May be used for identity verification for FAIR strength. |















  


